---
layout: tracks
title: "Artifacts Track"
---

<div id="content" class="container"><div class="row">

<!-- TITLE -->
<div class="col-sm-7">
  <div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm-12">
      <div class="page-header"><h1>Artifact Evaluation</h1></div>
    </div>
  </div>

<!-- BODY-->
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Authors of research papers (regular or short papers) accepted for CASCON 2025 have the opportunity to submit an artifact for evaluation. Papers will be given the <span style="background-color: yellow;">IEEE Open Research Object or Research Object Reviewed badges</span>
 if their corresponding artifacts meet certain conditions (see below). We will award badges to be displayed in those papers to recognize their contributions to open science. There will be a </span><span style="font-weight: 400; background-color: yellow;">Best Artifact Award </span><span style="font-weight: 400;">to recognize the effort of authors creating and sharing outstanding research artifacts. The artifact evaluation track uses a single-anonymous review process.</span></p>
<h2><span style="font-weight: 400;">Definition of artifacts:</span></h2>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">The artifact evaluation will attempt to reproduce experiments and determine if the results support the claims made in the paper. By &ldquo;artifact&rdquo; we mean a digital object that was either created by the authors to be used as part of the study or generated by the experiment itself. </span><span style="font-weight: 400;">They are support materials that enable the creation of results published in a paper.</span><span style="font-weight: 400;"> For example, artifacts can be software systems, scripts used to run experiments, input datasets, raw data collected in the experiment, or scripts used to analyze results. The artifact submission must include detailed instructions to allow an evaluator to determine if the artifact is functional and to reproduce the experiments.</span></p>
<h2><span style="font-weight: 400;">Acceptable Artifacts:</span></h2>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Artifacts of interest include (but are not limited to) the following (or combinations of them):</span></p>
<ul>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Data repositories, which are data (e.g., logging data, system traces, survey raw data) that can potentially be reused for multiple approaches.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Automated experiments that replicate the study in the accepted paper.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Software, which are implementations of systems or algorithms potentially useful in other studies.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Frameworks, which are tools and services illustrating new approaches that could be used by other researchers in different contexts.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Qualitative artifacts such as interview scripts and survey templates.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Machine learning models, e.g., pre-trained models.</span></li>
</ul>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">This list is not exhaustive. The authors are encouraged to contact the chairs before submitting if their proposed artifact is not on this list. </span><span style="font-weight: 400;">You may find an extended list of artifact types </span><a href="https://github.com/researchart/all/blob/master/ListOfArtifacts.md"><span style="font-weight: 400;">here</span></a><span style="font-weight: 400;">.&nbsp;</span></p>
<h2><span style="font-weight: 400;">Criteria for &ldquo;Open Research Object&rdquo; or &ldquo;Research Object Reviewed&rdquo; Badges:</span></h2>
<h3><strong>Open Research Object</strong></h3>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">A paper will be awarded the IEEE &ldquo;Open Research Object&rdquo; badge if the following two criteria are fulfilled:</span></p>
<ol>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Its artifact is placed in a publicly accessible archival repository, and a DOI or link to this persistent repository is provided.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Its artifact is properly documented, at the minimum with a README file explaining the meaning of each file and its content.</span></li>
</ol>
<h3><strong>Research Object Reviewed</strong></h3>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">A paper will be awarded the IEEE &ldquo;Research Object Reviewed&rdquo; badge if its artifact is documented, consistent, complete, exercisable, and includes appropriate evidence of verification and validation. Moreover, the documentation and structure of the artifact should be good enough so that reuse and repurposing are facilitated. The following are the meanings of the various above-mentioned terms:</span></p>
<ul>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Documented: At a minimum, an inventory of artifacts is included, and sufficient description is provided to enable the artifacts to be exercised.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Consistent: The artifacts are relevant to the associated paper, and contribute in some inherent way to the generation of its main results.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Complete: To the extent possible, all components relevant to the paper in question are included. (Proprietary artifacts need not be included. If they are required to exercise the package, then this should be documented, along with instructions on how to obtain them. Proxies for proprietary data should be included so as to demonstrate the analysis.)</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Exercisable: Included scripts and/or software used to generate the results in the associated paper can be successfully executed, and included data can be accessed and appropriately manipulated.</span></li>
</ul>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">One important clarification concerning the &ldquo;Exercisable&rdquo; property. Executing scripts/programs to demonstrate the artifact and/or to generate results should not require the availability of proprietary software, very specific hardware, or expensive hardware that is unusual to be available in most computer science or software engineering labs. For example, concerning visualization-related artifacts, we cannot expect PC members to have Virtual/Mixed Reality visors or other augmented reality devices (e.g., Hololens) available. In such cases, either the user should be able to (partially) reproduce the results using conventional hardware (e.g., screens), or videos should be attached to the artifacts to show how their execution will behave. The submitters might also assume that some PC members may not have suitable hardware (e.g., IoT devices or expensive GPUs) available (e.g., for the reproduction of ML models&rsquo; training), thus it might be good to have alternative solutions to allow the verification (e.g., allowing the PC members to experiment with the inference phase and, only optionally, the training phase).</span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">A paper can be given both badges if the artifact is open, exercisable, well-structured, and well-documented to allow reuse and repurposing.&nbsp;</span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">If you want to learn more about open science, the badging system, and the importance of creating open research objects, you can read </span><a href="https://journals.ieeeauthorcenter.ieee.org/create-your-ieee-journal-article/research-reproducibility/"><span style="font-weight: 400;">here</span></a><span style="font-weight: 400;"> and </span><a href="https://www.acm.org/publications/policies/artifact-review-badging"><span style="font-weight: 400;">here</span></a><span style="font-weight: 400;">.</span></p>
<h2><span style="font-weight: 400;">Submission and Review</span></h2>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">All submissions, reviewing, and notifications for this track will be via the CASCON 2025 EasyChair conference management system (&ldquo;Artifact Evaluation&rdquo; Track). Authors must submit the following:</span></p>
<ul>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Title and authors of the accepted paper.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">An abstract containing:</span></li>
<ul>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">A simple description of the artifact to be evaluated (1 paragraph);</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">A link to the paper&rsquo;s preprint;</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">The link to the artifact to be evaluated (see the steps below to prepare this link);</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">The badge(s) to claim, i.e., &ldquo;Open Research Object&rdquo; and/or &ldquo;Research Object Reviewed&rdquo;, briefly explaining why the artifact is eligible for such badges;</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Skills and knowledge required by a reviewer to properly review and execute the artifacts (e.g., programming languages, pieces of technology, etc.);</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Requirements to run the artifact (RAM, disk, packages, specific devices, operating system, etc). As we have explained before, such requirements should be &ldquo;reasonable&rdquo; for software engineering researchers.</span></li>
</ul>
</ul>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Authors of the papers accepted to the tracks must perform the following steps to submit an artifact:</span></p>
<p><strong>Step 1: Documenting the Artifact</strong></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Authors need to provide documentation explaining how to obtain the artifact package, how to unpack the artifact, how to get started, and how to use the artifacts in sufficient detail. The documentation must describe only the technicalities and uses of the artifacts that are not already described in the paper. The artifact should contain the following documents (in markdown plain text format within the root folder):</span></p>
<ul>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">A README.md main file describing what the artifact does and how and where it can be obtained (with hidden links and access password if necessary). There should be a clear description, step-by-step, of how to reproduce the results presented in the paper. Reviewers should not need to figure out on their own what the input is for a specific step or what output is produced (and where). All usage instructions should be explicitly documented in the step-by-step instructions of the README.md file. Provide an explicit mapping between the results and claims reported in the paper and the steps listed in README.md for easy traceability.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">For artifacts that contain any kind of code, the README.md file should contain two special sections: one for requirements, describing all necessary software/hardware prerequisites, and one for installation, with instructions including notes illustrating a very basic usage example or a method to test the installation. This could be, for instance, information on what output to expect that confirms that the code is installed and working; and that the code is doing something interesting and useful. Include, at the end of the installation section, the configuration for which the installation was tested.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">The README.md file should contain a link to the accepted paper. The paper pdf itself can be within the artifact&rsquo;s repository or in an external service (e.g., ArXiv).</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">A LICENSE.md file describing the distribution rights. Note that to score &ldquo;Open Research Object&rdquo; badge, then that license needs to be an open-source license compliant with OSI.</span></li>
</ul>
<p><strong>Step 2: Preparing the Artifact</strong></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">There are two options depending on the nature of the artifacts: Installation Package or Simple Package. In both cases, the configuration and installation of the artifact should take less than 30 minutes. Otherwise, the artifact is unlikely to be endorsed simply because the committee will not have sufficient time to evaluate it.</span></p>
<ul>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><strong>Installation Package:</strong><span style="font-weight: 400;"> If the artifact consists of a tool or software system, then the authors need to prepare an installation package (or an installation procedure) so that the tool can be installed and run in the evaluator&rsquo;s environment. Provide enough associated instruction, code, and data such that a person with a CS background, with a reasonable knowledge of scripting, build tools, etc., could install, build, and run the code. If the artifact contains or requires the use of a special tool or any other non-trivial piece of software, the authors must provide a VirtualBox VM image or a Docker image with a working environment containing the artifact and all the necessary tools. Similarly, if the artifact requires specific hardware, it should be clearly documented in the requirements (see Step 1 &ndash; Documenting the Artifact). We shall emphasize again that the submitters may not assume that the PC members have special hardware such as IoT devices or expensive GPUs. Note that we expect that the artifacts will have been vetted on a clean machine before submission.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><strong>Simple Package:</strong><span style="font-weight: 400;"> If the artifact contains only documents that can be used with a simple text editor, a PDF viewer, or some other common tool (e.g., a spreadsheet program in its basic configuration), the authors can just save all documents in a single package file (zip or tar.gz).</span></li>
</ul>
<p><strong>Step 3: Making the Artifact Available for Review</strong></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Authors need to make the packaged artifact (installation package or simple package) available so that the Evaluation Committee can access it.</span></p>
<p><strong>For the &ldquo;Open Research Object badge&rdquo;:</strong><span style="font-weight: 400;"> If the authors are aiming for the Open Research Object badge, the artifact needs to be (i) placed in a publicly accessible archival repository (and have a DOI), and (ii) the link to the artifact needs to be included in the Camera Ready (CR) version of the paper (for tracks that the CR deadline is before the artifact submission, the link should be already in the CR). When generating the DOI, the authors should use &ldquo;all version&rdquo; links (as opposed to a specific version of the artifact) so that, when the artifact is updated, the DOI does not change.</span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Note that links to individual websites or links to temporary drives (e.g. Google) are non-persistent, and thus artifacts placed in such locations will not be considered for the available badge. Examples of persistent storage that offer DOI are </span><a href="https://ieee-dataport.org/"><span style="font-weight: 400;">IEEE Data Port</span></a><span style="font-weight: 400;">, </span><a href="http://zenodo.org/"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Zenodo</span></a><span style="font-weight: 400;">, </span><a href="http://figshare.com/"><span style="font-weight: 400;">figshare</span></a><span style="font-weight: 400;">, and </span><a href="http://osf.io/"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Open Science Framework</span></a><span style="font-weight: 400;">. For installation packages, authors can use </span><a href="https://innovate.ieee.org/ieee-code-ocean/"><span style="font-weight: 400;">CodeOcean</span></a><span style="font-weight: 400;">, a cloud-based computational reproducibility platform that is fully integrated with IEEE Xplore. Other suitable providers can be found </span><a href="https://www.nature.com/sdata/policies/repositories#general"><span style="font-weight: 400;">here</span></a><span style="font-weight: 400;">. Institutional repositories are acceptable. In all cases, repositories used to archive data should have a declared plan to enable permanent accessibility.</span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">One relatively simple way to make your packaged artifact publicly accessible:</span></p>
<ul>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Create a GitHub repository.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Register the repository at Zenodo.org. For details on that process, see </span><a href="https://guides.github.com/activities/citable-code"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Citable Code Guidelines</span></a><span style="font-weight: 400;">.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Make a release at Github, at which time Zenodo will automatically grab a copy of that repository and issue a Digital Object Identifier (DOI) e.g. </span><a href="https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4308746"><span style="font-weight: 400;">https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4308746</span></a><span style="font-weight: 400;">.</span></li>
</ul>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;"><b>For the &ldquo;Research Object Reviewed&rdquo;: </b>Artifacts do not necessarily have to be publicly accessible for the review process if the goal is only the &ldquo;Research Object Reviewed&rdquo; badge. In this case, the authors are asked to provide a private link or a password-protected link.</span></p>


</div>

<!-- SIDEBAR -->
<div class="col-sm-4 col-sm-offset-1 sidebar">
    <div class="panel panel-primary">
      <div class="panel-heading clearfix">
          <div class="panel-title">
              <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-bullhorn"></span> 
              <a href="#" class="navigate">Important Dates</a>
          </div>
      </div>
      <table class="table table-hover" id="important-dates">
        <tr href="{{ site.baseurl }}/tracks/artifacts" class="clickable-row">
            <td>Aug 18, 2025 <span title="" data-original-title="Timezone: AoE (UTC-12h)">
                <small><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-time"></span></small></span><br>
                <em class="text-primary">Abstract Due</em>
            </td>
        </tr>
                <tr href="{{ site.baseurl }}/tracks/artifacts" class="clickable-row">
            <td>Aug 25, 2025 <span title="" data-original-title="Timezone: AoE (UTC-12h)">
                <small><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-time"></span></small></span><br>
                <em class="text-primary">Full Paper Submission Due</em>
            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr href="{{ site.baseurl }}/tracks/artifacts" class="clickable-row">
            <td>Sep 29, 2025 <span title="" data-original-title="Timezone: AoE (UTC-12h)">
                <small><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-time"></span></small></span><br>
                <em class="text-primary">Acceptance Notification</em>
            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr href="{{ site.baseurl }}/tracks/artifacts" class="clickable-row">
            <td>Nov 10-13, 2025 <span title="" data-original-title="Timezone: AoE (UTC-12h)">
                <small><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-time"></span></small></span><br>
                <em class="text-primary">Technical Paper Presentation</em>
            </td>
        </tr>
      </table>
    </div> 
</div>

<!-- CONTACT SIDEBAR -->
<div class="col-sm-4 col-sm-offset-1 sidebar">
    <div class="panel panel-primary">
      <div class="panel-heading clearfix">
          <div class="panel-title">
              <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-envelope"></span> 
              <a href="#" class="navigate">Contact</a>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="panel-body">
          <strong>Artifact Track Co-chairs:</strong><br>
          Marios Fokaefs <a href="mailto:fokaefs@yorku.ca">fokaefs@yorku.ca</a>, York University<br>
          Heng Li <a href="mailto:heng.li@polymtl.ca">heng.li@polymtl.ca</a>, Polytechnique Montréal
      </div>
    </div> 
</div>

<!-- SUBMISSION LINK SIDEBAR -->
<div class="col-sm-4 col-sm-offset-1 sidebar">
    <div class="panel panel-primary">
      <div class="panel-heading clearfix">
          <div class="panel-title">
              <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-upload"></span> 
              <a href="#" class="navigate">Submission Link</a>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="panel-body text-center">
          <em>Coming soon.</em>
      </div>
    </div> 
</div>




</div>
